---
layout: misc
title: Join
---
### Positions in our lab

#### 1. Postdoctoral and PhD position in tumor epigenome evolution

Are you passionate about uncovering the hidden drivers of cancer evolution? Join the computational cancer biology lab of Martin Schaefer as a **postdoctoral researcher** or **PhD student**, where you'll develop innovative models to identify epigenetic drivers of late stage carcinogenesis.
##### Project overview:
Cancer is driven by alterations on all molecular levels. While our knowledge about the contribution of point mutations to the phenotypic hallmarks of cancer has advanced substantially over the last decade, we still need to solve the puzzle of how the numerous quantitative changes (eg epigenetic or transcriptional) are related to cancer initiation and progression. We are looking for a computational postdoc to develop models of selection to identify epigenetic drivers of carcinogenesis. 

Your work will contribute to solving one of the most critical puzzles in cancer biology—linking quantitative molecular changes to cancer initiation and progression - by analyzing cutting-edge data types such as WGBS, EM-seq, and ONT sequencing. Your role will involve investigating key questions such as:
* Identifying alterations under selection in late-stage tumors.
* Understanding how epigenetic changes facilitate adaptation to metastatic niches.
* Exploring how selection pressures reveal tumor vulnerabilities.

The successful candidate will work together in close collaboration with other members of the lab as well as with wet lab and clinical collaborators.  

##### Learn more:
This is a continuation of our previous work, in particular: [Heery and Schaefer. NAR. 2021](https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gkab1167) and [Alfieri, Caravagna and Schaefer. Nat Comm. 2023](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-023-39313-8). [Watch](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CZkQmMb1q60) also a video describing our quest for identifying epigenetic drivers of tumor evolution.


#### 2. Postdoctoral or PhD position in computational network biology
We are seeking a highly motivated **postdoctoral researcher** or **PhD student** with a strong computational background to join our research project on protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks. Our research addresses critical challenges in network biology, with a specific focus on enhancing the reliability and interpretability of protein-protein interaction data.
##### Project overview:
Protein-protein interaction networks are key to understanding biological and disease processes, but current methods to detect, integrate and analyze those networks suffer from high technical error rates and biases, particularly due to the overrepresentation of frequently studied proteins. In a joint project funded by the Klaus Tschira Foundation together with the Friedrich Alexander University (Erlangen, Germany) and the Technical University of Munich (Germany), we aim to improve the quality of PPI networks by leveraging large scale experimental information towards two key objectives:  
1. Developing a negative gold standard for PPI prediction: We will create a robust set of pairs of proteins that are highly unlikely to interact, providing essential negative examples for machine learning models.
2. Mitigating the study bias in PPI networks: We will implement methods to characterize and reduce the impact of [over-testing certain proteins](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2023.03.17.533165v2), ultimately improving the accuracy and reliability of PPI networks.

##### Learn more:
We recently released a [preprint](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2023.03.17.533165v2), in which we argue that the power law distribution in protein-protein interaction networks may result from from testing some proteins much more frequently than others for interaction partners. One algorithmic solution to this problem is to [avoid highly studied proteins and edges](https://academic.oup.com/bioinformatics/article/39/6/btad345/7180269). One alternative idea, which we will pursue here, is to use experimental information to reduce the bias in the networks itself. We will integrate the resulting network into our database [HIPPIE](https://cbdm.uni-mainz.de/hippie/). More information related to our consortium can be found on the [CobiNet website](https://www.cobinet.ai).    

#### About us and the application procedure

##### What we offer:
* World-class research environment: The IEO, located on the IFOM-IEO campus in central Milan, is renowned for its excellence in cancer research, with a strong emphasis on genomics, clinical applications, and the mechanistic understanding of cancer biology.
* Collaborative and diverse team: You’ll be part of a dynamic, interdisciplinary and international community that fosters collaboration between computational and experimental scientists.
* State-of-the-art infrastructure: Access to excellent HPC infrastructure and core facilities, ensuring you have the resources to excel in your research.
* Learning opportunities: You will receive close supervision and mentorship, with significant opportunities to expand your expertise in network biology, machine learning, and programming.

More information on our institute can be found here: [www.research.ieo.it](https://www.research.ieo.it/).

##### Requirements:
* For postdoc candidates: PhD in Bioinformatics, Computer Science, Biophysics or a related field.
* For PhD candidates: Master in a computational discipline.
* Background in population genomics, machine learning or network biology.
* Proficiency in programming languages (e.g., Python, R).
* Experience with large-scale data analysis and high-performance computing.
* Enthusiasm for learning and applying new computational methods to biological questions.

##### How to apply:
Informal inquiries for further information are also welcome. Applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis until the position is filled.  
Please note that candidates interested in pursuing a PhD will additionally need to apply to and enroll in our [graduate school](https://www.semm.it/) upon acceptance.

#### Bachelor and master theses

We are always looking for **bachelor and master students** interested in doing their thesis or internships with us. Please directly contact: martin.schaefer@ieo.it.


#### The workplace

The European Institute of Oncology (IEO) is one of Europe’s leading cancer research institutes. The lab is in the Department of Experimental Oncology (DEO), which is located on the IFOM-IEO campus in a central location of Milan. The IEO hosts an international and vibrant research community (with a growing computational component). It is strong in genomics analyses, clinical aspects and mechanistic understanding of cancer. The IEO has an excellent HPC infrastructure and core facilities. The institute and the lab provide a collaborative and diverse work environment. The working language is English.
